docs/source/user_guide/additional_config.md, before:

# Additional Configuration

addintional configuration is a mechanism provided by vLLM to allow plugins to control inner behavior by their own. vLLM Ascend uses this mechanism to make the project more flexible.

## How to use

With either online mode or offline mode, users can use additional configuration. Take Qwen3 as an example:

**Online mode**:

```bash
vllm serve Qwen/Qwen3-8B --additional-config='{"config_key":"config_value"}'
```

**Offline mode**:

```python
from vllm import LLM

LLM(model="Qwen/Qwen3-8B", additional_config={"config_key":"config_value"})
```

### Configuration options

The following table lists the additional configuration options available in vLLM Ascend:

| Name                          | Type | Default | Description                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------| ---- |------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `torchair_graph_config`       | dict | `{}` | The config options for torchair graph mode                                                    |
| `ascend_scheduler_config`     | dict | `{}` | The config options for ascend scheduler                                                       |
| `expert_tensor_parallel_size` | str | `0`  | Expert tensor parallel size the model to use.                                                 |
| `refresh`                     | bool | `false` | Whether to refresh global ascend config content. This value is usually used by rlhf case.     |
| `expert_map_path`             | str | None | When using expert load balancing for the MOE model, an expert map path needs to be passed in. |

The details of each config option are as follows:

**torchair_graph_config**

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `enabled` | bool | `False` | Whether to enable torchair graph mode |
| `enable_multistream_moe`| bool | `False` | Whether to enable multistream shared expert |
| `enable_view_optimize` | bool | `True` | Whether to enable torchair view optimization |
| `use_cached_graph` | bool | `False` | Whether to use cached graph |
| `graph_batch_sizes` | list[int] | `[]` | The batch size for torchair graph cache |
| `graph_batch_sizes_init` | bool | `False` | Init graph batch size dynamically if `graph_batch_sizes` is empty |
| `enable_kv_nz`| bool | `False` | Whether to enable kvcache NZ layout |

**ascend_scheduler_config**

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `enabled` | bool | `False` | Whether to enable ascend scheduler for V1 engine|

ascend_scheduler_config also support the options from [vllm scheduler config](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/stable/api/vllm/config.html#vllm.config.SchedulerConfig). For example, you  can add `chunked_prefill_enabled: true` to ascend_scheduler_config as well.

### Example

A full example of additional configuration is as follows:

```
{
    "torchair_graph_config": {
        "enabled": true,
        "use_cached_graph": true,
        "graph_batch_sizes": [1, 2, 4, 8],
        "graph_batch_sizes_init": false,
        "enable_multistream_moe": false,
        "enable_kv_nz": false
    },
    "ascend_scheduler_config": {
        "enabled": true,
        "chunked_prefill_enabled": true,
    },
    "expert_tensor_parallel_size": 1,
    "refresh": false,
}
```

Commit message:

Support multistream of MLA vector operations (#1135)
### What this PR does / why we need it?
Move all vector operations to a secondary stream, with the expected
overlaping being:
```
              | q_rmsnorm |                  | kv_norm_rope_cache |       | q_rope |
| matmul W_DQ | matmul W_DKV | index | index |    matmul W_UQ     | split | matmul W_KV_T |
```

Currently, the `IndexByTensor` operators introduced by computation of
`cos` and `sin` can't be offloaded to the secondary stream due to a
known bug of graph fusion optimization pass. So we instead keep it in
the main stream, only requires it be computed before `matmul W_UQ` to
avoid hindering later overlapping. The problem may be solved by later
optimization (#993), which hoists the computation of `cos` and `sin` up
to the first layer.

### Does this PR introduce _any_ user-facing change?
Controlled by `torchair_graph_config.enable_multistream_mla`, defaulted
to False.

### How was this patch tested?
Tested on 1x16 910 node, with tailored 2 layer DSKv2.

Signed-off-by: sdmyzlp <lrwei2@petalmail.com>

docs/source/user_guide/additional_config.md, after:

# Additional Configuration

addintional configuration is a mechanism provided by vLLM to allow plugins to control inner behavior by their own. vLLM Ascend uses this mechanism to make the project more flexible.

## How to use

With either online mode or offline mode, users can use additional configuration. Take Qwen3 as an example:

**Online mode**:

```bash
vllm serve Qwen/Qwen3-8B --additional-config='{"config_key":"config_value"}'
```

**Offline mode**:

```python
from vllm import LLM

LLM(model="Qwen/Qwen3-8B", additional_config={"config_key":"config_value"})
```

### Configuration options

The following table lists the additional configuration options available in vLLM Ascend:

| Name                          | Type | Default | Description                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------| ---- |------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `torchair_graph_config`       | dict | `{}` | The config options for torchair graph mode                                                    |
| `ascend_scheduler_config`     | dict | `{}` | The config options for ascend scheduler                                                       |
| `expert_tensor_parallel_size` | str | `0`  | Expert tensor parallel size the model to use.                                                 |
| `refresh`                     | bool | `false` | Whether to refresh global ascend config content. This value is usually used by rlhf case.     |
| `expert_map_path`             | str | None | When using expert load balancing for the MOE model, an expert map path needs to be passed in. |

The details of each config option are as follows:

**torchair_graph_config**

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `enabled` | bool | `False` | Whether to enable torchair graph mode |
| `enable_multistream_mla`| bool | `False` | Whether to put vector ops of MLA to another stream |
| `enable_multistream_moe`| bool | `False` | Whether to enable multistream shared expert |
| `enable_view_optimize` | bool | `True` | Whether to enable torchair view optimization |
| `use_cached_graph` | bool | `False` | Whether to use cached graph |
| `graph_batch_sizes` | list[int] | `[]` | The batch size for torchair graph cache |
| `graph_batch_sizes_init` | bool | `False` | Init graph batch size dynamically if `graph_batch_sizes` is empty |
| `enable_kv_nz`| bool | `False` | Whether to enable kvcache NZ layout |

**ascend_scheduler_config**

| Name | Type | Default | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `enabled` | bool | `False` | Whether to enable ascend scheduler for V1 engine|

ascend_scheduler_config also support the options from [vllm scheduler config](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/stable/api/vllm/config.html#vllm.config.SchedulerConfig). For example, you  can add `chunked_prefill_enabled: true` to ascend_scheduler_config as well.

### Example

A full example of additional configuration is as follows:

```
{
    "torchair_graph_config": {
        "enabled": true,
        "use_cached_graph": true,
        "graph_batch_sizes": [1, 2, 4, 8],
        "graph_batch_sizes_init": false,
        "enable_multistream_moe": false,
        "enable_kv_nz": false
    },
    "ascend_scheduler_config": {
        "enabled": true,
        "chunked_prefill_enabled": true,
    },
    "expert_tensor_parallel_size": 1,
    "refresh": false,
}
```
